The first thing I need to do is configure the NTP server, so on the NTP server, go to NTP
and I'll enable the NTP servers.
I'm not going to enable authentication at this point.
I can then specify the date and time this is OK for this lab.
The clock on the local PC is the 12th of April, 2018 time is 4:38 AM.
We're told to check the time on the router in the switch first, at the moment show clock shows us that
the router thinks it's 1993.
The switch thinks it's also 1993, so the time is wrong on both of these devices.
Before we configure NTP let's send time-stamped messages to the syslog server.
So at the moment, the Syslog server is not showing timestamps on Syslog messages. So on
the router, I'm going to type service timestamps, log messages, date and time,
and milliseconds, notice the difference now when I type end we can see the date and time on the syslog message,
but it's the wrong date and time, so that doesn't really help us with troubleshooting.
We want to know when something took place.
So we want  date and time as well as milliseconds
but again, the switch is showing the wrong date and time, so we need to fix that.
So on the router
NTP server we need to specify the IP address of the NTP server.
NTP server has this IP address, 10.1.1.201, so specify IP address of NTP server.
When I type end now and press enter notice of the correct date and time is displayed on the syslog message.
It's the 12th of April, 2018, the time is 4:42 AM. So that's good, configure the switch.
So NTP server 10.1.1.201, type end notice of the corrected date and time is
displayed.
We're getting messages from both the router and the switch.
We're told to verify the date and time on the road and switch. So on
the router, show clock shows the correct date and time on the switch show clock shows the correct date
and time.
We're then told to shut and enable the loopback interface and shut and enable the ethernet interface on
the switch to verify that the syslog messages are correct.
I've done that already
but to demonstrate it again, when I go into the loopback  interface and I shut the interface
down, we can see that the interface went down at the correct date and time.
No shut interface has come up at the correct date and time.
So we see the corrected date and time on the router as well as on the syslog server.
Same thing should happen on the switch, shut interface F104
show IP interface brief.
This is the interface I want to shut down to gigabit interface, not fast Ethernet so interface gigabit
104, shut that down rather than no shut interface has gone down.
We can see the interface has gone down at the state in time.
No, shut it
interfaces come up
at the state and time, so again, the switch is displaying the correct time and so is the syslog server.
So I've successfully completed this lab.
I've been able to configure the router and the switch to use an NTP server to get the correct
date and time and to log messages to syslog server.
Were you able to complete this lab?
Again, it's important for you to know both syslog and NTP for the CCNA exam as well as for the real
world.
Make sure that you understand how to configure both syslog and NTP.